---
layout: post
title: Robotic perceived empathy (RoPE scale)
category: "attitudes"
pubyear: 2020
pubauthor: charrier
scalename: RoPE
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct of empathic comprehension, or perceived empathy as:

>"Empathic comprehension, sometimes called empathic understanding, describes the ability to become aware of and to understand another person’s unique experience and feelings. Empathic response describes how one communicates their attempts at understanding someone else’s frame of reference, including their feelings and motives." (p. 656)

# Rating = 38% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
item development reported in a separate (earlier) paper.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8673082?casa_token=6tCsqe-JQlMAAAAA:LGzFMbNAnAVTyW9UUMKeI69SlQZiSzegPVx276FzMRvtkrdSfO7E3uT6jBrRIHrDr0GZ21flVQ){:target="_blank"}
<br>Charrier, L., Rieger, A., Galdeano, A., Cordier, A., Lefort, M., & Hassas, S. (2019, March). The rope scale: a measure of how empathic a robot is perceived. In 2019 14th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) (pp. 656-657). IEEE.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or click [here]({% post_url 2024-06-20-submitScale %}) to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (16 total):

**Empathic Understanding**
<br>the robot appreciates exactly how the things I experience feel to me
<br>the robot knows me and my needs
<br>the robot cares about my feelings
<br>the robot does not understand me
<br>the robot perceives and accepts my individual characteristics
<br>the robot usually understands the whole of what I mean
<br>The robot reacts to my words but does not see the way I feel
<br>the robot seems to feel bad when I am sad or disappointed


**Empathic Response**
<br>whether thoughts or feelings I express are "good" or "bad" makes no difference to the robot's actions towards me
<br>no matter what I tell about myself, the robot acts just the same
<br>the robot comforts me when I am upset; the robot encourages me
<br>the robot praises me when I have done something well
<br>the robot helps me when I need it
<br>the robot knows when I want to talk and lets me do so
<br>the robot's response to me is fixed and automatic that I do not get through to it



