---
layout: post
title: Multidimensional Robot Attitude Scale
category: "attitudes/attributes"
pubyear: 2015
pubauthor: ninomiya
scalename: Multi-Dimensional Robot Attitude Scale
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors do not provide a definition of the construct.


# Rating = 46% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <<td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
2 dimensions had only 2 items, not nearly enough Ps, no factor loadings shown, item removal process not replicable, unclear how exactly they defined attitude

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-25554-5_48){:target="_blank"}
<br>Ninomiya, T., Fujita, A., Suzuki, D., & Umemuro, H. (2015). Development of the multi-dimensional robot attitude scale: Constructs of people’s attitudes towards domestic robots. In Social Robotics: 7th International Conference, ICSR 2015, Paris, France, October 26-30, 2015, Proceedings 7 (pp. 482-491). Springer International Publishing.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (49 total):

<br>If a robot was introduced to my home, I would feel like I have a new family member. 
<br>I would feel relaxed with a robot in my home. 
<br>I like that a robot can encourage me. 
<br>I think a robot can be a communication partner. 
<br>I want to converse with a robot. 
<br>I would want to boast that I have a robot in my home. 
<br>If a robot is introduced to my home, I think my children or grandchildren will be pleased. 
<br>If my friends use robots, I will also want one. 
<br>I want to use robots if I can use them with my friends. 
<br>Robots are neo-futuristic and cutting-edge. 
<br>It is good if a robot can do the work of a human. 
<br>I feel easy around robots because I do not need to pay attention to robots as I do to humans. 
<br>It would be a pity to have a robot in my home. 
<br>The movements of a robot are unpleasant. 
<br>It is unnatural for a robot to speak in a human language. 
<br>I feel like I also become a machine when I am with a robot. 
<br>I feel scared around robots. 
<br>I have enough skills to use a robot. 
<br>I can make full use of a robot. 
<br>It is easy to use a robot. 
<br>I can easily learn how to use a robot. 
<br>I think the robot design should be cute. 
<br>I think robots should have animal-like shapes. 
<br>I think the shape of a robot should have roundness. 
<br>I think the voice of a robot should be like the voice of a living creature. 
<br>I think the design of a robot should be beautiful. 
<br>I think the design of a robot should be cool.
<br>I think a robot should have human-like shape. 
<br>Robots are practical. 
<br>Robots are user-friendly. 
<br>Robots have functions that I find satisfactory with. 
<br>Robots are convenient. 
<br>I feel the necessity for robots in my daily life. 
<br>I think robots are heavy. 
<br>I think the maintenance of a robot is difficult. 
<br>I worry about the robot breaking down. 
<br>I think robots should make various sounds. 
<br>I think robots should have various shapes. 
<br>I think robots should have various colors. 
<br>I think a robot could recognize me and respond to me. 
<br>I think a robot would obey my commands. 
<br>I want to tame a robot according to my preferences. 
<br>I expect my family or friends to teach me how to use a robot. 
<br>I expect my family or friends to help me when I use a robot. 
<br>I expect my family or friends to advise me how to use a robot. 
<br>Robots can be used by remote control. 
<br>Robots can be controlled by a button (on the robot itself). 
<br>I worry that robots are suitable for the state (layout of the furniture and other things) of my room now. 
<br>I worry that robots are suitable for the circumstances (width or numbers of ramps) of my room now.