---
layout: post
title: Educational Robot Attitude Scale (ERAS)
category: "attitudes/attributes"
pubyear: 2019
pubauthor: sisman
scalename: ERAS
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the scale as a measure of students' attitudes towards the use of humanoid robots in educational settings. The scale consists of four factors defined as:

>1. engagement - concern the learners’ involvement in the lesson (p. 385) <br>2. enjoyment - aimed to measure the learners’ views of the robot as a source of entertainment in the class (p. 385) <br>3. intention - reflect their intended communication with the robot in the future lessons (p. 385) <br>4. anxiety - items that target to reveal the sources of fear, anxiety and avoidance associated with the use of robots in the class

# Rating = 62% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
factor loadings only reported on final set of items, item removal process was described but not replicable

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10494820.2018.1474234?casa_token=1QqFXHMwfGgAAAAA%3A2cQVaR7APnYaE3DtFqMGhccOVwjQUtmLnfGk9-R0XWSemJ2QRVb0TGNXoaMEYpNg5gn-Y5u_o25CVNo){:target="_blank"}
<br>Sisman, B., Gunay, D., & Kucuk, S. (2019). Development and validation of an educational robot attitude scale (ERAS) for secondary school students. Interactive Learning Environments, 27(3), 377-388.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (17 total):

**Engagement**
<br>I try to make sense of the lesson better when a robot is used in the lesson.
<br>I can pay more attention to the lesson when there is a robot in the class.
<br>I can consider the robot as a teacher as it talks and moves like a human.
<br>I feel more interested in the topic when there is a robot in the class.
<br>I enjoy lessons that are handled using a robot.

**Enjoyment**
<br>It is interesting to see a robot acting and talking like a human.
<br>Communicating with the robot is fun.
<br>I like communicating with the robot on a one-on-one basis.
<br>I enjoy it when the robot understands what I am saying and responds to me.

**Anxiety**
<br>I don’t like the robot to be in the class.
<br>The existence of a robot in the class causes disrupt.
<br>Communicating with the robot is difficult.
<br>I feel nervous while talking with the robot.

**Intention**
<br>I would like robots to take part in the lessons in the future.
<br>I would like to have a robot that would accompany me while studying at home.
<br>I would like robots to be utilized in other lessons as well.
<br>I think robots should be used in the lessons because the age of technology necessitates this."