---
layout: post
title: Perceived Moral Patiency Scale (PMP)
category: "morality"
pubyear: 2023
pubauthor: banks
scalename: PMP
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary


# Rating = 92% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <<td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Initial items are in supp material (OSF)

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-022-00950-6){:target="_blank"}
<br>Banks, J., & Bowman, N. D. (2023). Perceived moral patiency of social robots: Explication and scale development. International Journal of Social Robotics, 15(1), 101-113.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (18 total):

**Care**
<br>This robot should have its opinions considered.
<br>This robot should be engaged in conversation. 
<br>This robot should be helped to achieve its goals.

**Fairness**
<br>This robot should be treated as an equal.
<br>This robot should have advocates for equal rights.
<br>This robot should be treated as humans are treated.

**Authority**
<br>This robot should be respected.
<br>This robot should be admired for its skills.
<br>This robot should be obeyed.

**Loyalty**
<br>This robot should have someone who always has their back.
<br>This robot should have a devoted protector.
<br>This robot should have humans support its purpose.

**Purity**
<br>This robot should be protected from violent or lewd media.
<br>This robot should be protected from the harsh realities of humanity.
<br>This robot should only be allowed to consume wholesome information.

**Liberty** 
<br>This robot should be programmed to be free.
<br>This robot should be freed from control by others. 
<br>This robot should be given free reign.