---
layout: post
title: Multdimensional Measure of Trust - version 2
category: "trust"
pubyear: 2022
pubauthor: malle
scalename: MDMTv2
date:   2024-06-12 02:23:41 -0400
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors use the same definition of trust as in their original publication:

>"Trust = a dyadic relation in which one person accepts vulnerability because they
>expect that the other person’s future action will have certain characteristics; these
>characteristics include some mix of performance (ability, reliability) and/or morality
>(honesty, integrity, and benevolence)" (Malle & Ullman, 2021, p. 12)

However, this study updates the construct to include the dimension of benevolence (e.g., kind, looks out for others, etc)

# Rating = 23% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


**Comments**
<br> Much of the information about scale development is referenced as being reported in the dissertation of Danny Ullman.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.14887){:target="_blank"}
<br>Malle, B. F., & Ullman, D. (2023). Measuring Human-Robot Trust with the MDMT (Multi-Dimensional Measure of Trust). arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.14887.

PDF of instructions for use, scoring, and blank scale is not readily available. Check the paper for more details or click [here]({% post_url 2024-06-20-submitScale %}) to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (20 total)

A list of the final items was not included in the paper.