---
layout: post
title: Perceived Agency (PA) Scale
category: "Mind/Agency Perception"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: trafton
scalename: PA
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the perception of agency as:

>People perceive agency in another entity when the entity’s actions may be assumed by an outside observer to be driven primarily by its internal thoughts and feelings and less by the external environment. (p. 3)

# Rating = 100% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <<td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://dl.acm.org/doi/full/10.1145/3640011){:target="_blank"}
<br>Trafton, J. G., McCurry, J. M., Zish, K., & Frazier, C. R. (2024). The perception of agency. ACM Transactions on Human-Robot Interaction, 13(1), 1-23.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (14 total including an attention check):
The entity...

<br>acts with purpose
<br>has goals
<br>can create new goals 
<br>can communicate with people
<br>treats others as if they had a mind
<br>wanted to perform these actions
<br>can show empotions to other people
<br>can change their behavior based on how people treat them
<br>can adapt to different situations
<br>would do well in other environments
<br>can perform many types of tasks 
<br>Imagine the robot/character/person was asked to be an actor in a local theater production. How well do you think they would do?
<br>łImagine the robot/character/person was asked to host a dinner party for your friends next weekend. This includes coming up with a menu, cooking, and hosting. How well do you think they will do?
<br>has a face (attention check)