---
layout: post
title: Robotic Social Attribute Scale (RoSAS)
category: "social attributes"
pubyear: 2017
pubauthor: carpinella
scalename: RoSAS
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct as a measure of the central attributes implicated in human perception of robots. They state that there are three main dimensions of social perception of robots:

><br>1. warmth - defined as whether another [entity] intends to help or harm (p. 254)
><br>2. competence - defined as whether a[n] [entity] has the ability to help or harm (p. 254)
><br>3. discomfort (not explicitly defined)


# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <<td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2909824.3020208){:target="_blank"}
<br>Carpinella, C. M., Wyman, A. B., Perez, M. A., & Stroessner, S. J. (2017, March). The robotic social attributes scale (rosas) development and validation. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM/IEEE International Conference on human-robot interaction (pp. 254-262).

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or click [here]({% post_url 2024-06-20-submitScale %}) to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (18 total):

**Competence**
<br>capable
<br>responsible
<br>interactive
<br>reliable
<br>competent
<br>knowledgable

**Warmth**
<br>happy
<br>feeling
<br>social
<br>organic
<br>compassionate
<br>emotional

**Discomfort**
<br>scary
<br>strange
<br>awkward
<br>dangerous
<br>awful
<br>aggressive