---
layout: post
title: Godspeed scale
category: "attitudes/attributes"
pubyear: 2009
pubauthor: bartneck
scalename: Godspeed
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors report that the scale was developed to measure "users' perception of service robots" (p. 71) and "take the often-used concepts of anthropomorphism, animacy, likeability, and perceived intelligence and perceived safety as starting points to propose a consistent set of five questionnaires for these concepts." (p. 72)

# Rating = 23% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-008-0001-3){:target="_blank"}
<br>Bartneck, C., Kulić, D., Croft, E., & Zoghbi, S. (2009). Measurement instruments for the anthropomorphism, animacy, likeability, perceived intelligence, and perceived safety of robots. International journal of social robotics, 1, 71-81.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (24 total):
Semantic differential so each item is an endpoint separated by 1-5 response scale.

**Anthropomorphism**
<br>fake/natural
<br>machinelike/humanlike
<br>unconscious/conscious
<br>artificial/lifelike
<br>moving rigidly/moving elegantly

**Animacy**
<br>dead/alive
<br>stagnant/lively
<br>mechanical/organic
<br>artificial/lifelike
<br>inert/interactive
<br>apathetic/responsive

**Likeability**
<br>dislike/like
<br>unfriendly/friendly
<br>unkind/kind
<br>unpleasant/pleasant
<br>awful/nice

**Perceived Intelligence**
<br>incompetent/competent
<br>ignorant/knowledgeable
<br>irresponsible/responsible
<br>unintelligent/intelligent
<br>foolish/sensible

**Perceived Safety**
<br>anxious/relaxed
<br>agitated/calm
<br>quiescient/surprised