---
layout: post
title: Multidimensional Measure of Trust (MDMT)
category: "trust"
pubyear: 2021
pubauthor: malle
scalename: MDMT
---

**NOTE: THIS IS NOT THE LATEST VERSION OF THIS SCALE. <br> We recommend using the latest version of this scale which you can find [here]({% post_url 2024-06-12-MDMTv2 %})**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct of trust as follows: 

>"Trust = a dyadic relation in which one person accepts vulnerability because they
>expect that the other person’s future action will have certain characteristics; these
>characteristics include some mix of performance (ability, reliability) and/or morality
>(honesty, integrity, and benevolence)" (p. 12)


# Rating = 62% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Full initial set consisted of 62 items which was later whittled down to 32 and then further to 16. The 32- and 16-item versions are published in the paper.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/B9780128194720000010){:target="_blank"}
<br>Malle, B. F., & Ullman, D. (2021). A multi-dimensional conception and measure of human-robot trust. In C. S. Nam and J. B. Lyons (eds.), Trust in human-robot interaction: research and applications (pp.3-25). Elsevier.

<a href="/assets/pdf/CurrentVersion_MDMT.pdf" target="_blank">Administration instructions, blank scale, and scoring information</a>

# Final Scale Items (16 total):

**Performance Trust - Reliable**
<br>reliable
<br>predictable
<br>someone you can count on
<br>consistent

**Performance Trust - Capable**
<br>capable
<br>skilled
<br>competent
<br>meticulous

**Moral Trust - Sincere**
<br>sincere
<br>genuine
<br>candid
<br>authentic

**Moral Trust - Ethical**
<br>ethical
<br>respectable
<br>principled
<br>has integrity

