---
layout: post
title: Anthropomorphism Rasch
category: "anthropomorphism"
pubyear: 2019
pubauthor: ruijten
scalename: NA
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct as follows:

>We view anthropomorphism as a one-dimensional construct, and argue that all human-like characteristics—no matter which subset they belong to—are ordered according to the probability with which they are ascribed to robots. (p. 478)


# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <<td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Recruited participants through personal contacts (not replicable), inconsistent item removal process across experiments, inconsistent # of items across experiments (37, 25, 19)

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-019-00516-z){:target="_blank"}
<br>Ruijten, P. A., Haans, A., Ham, J., & Midden, C. J. (2019). Perceived human-likeness of social robots: testing the Rasch model as a method for measuring anthropomorphism. International Journal of Social Robotics, 11, 477-494.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (unclear)

