---
layout: post
title: Robot Anxiety Scale (RAS)
category: "attitudes"
pubyear: 2006
pubauthor: nomura
scalename: RAS
---

**NOTE: THERE ARE OTHER VERSIONS OF THIS SCALE. THIS IS NOT THE MOST UP-TO-DATE VERSION**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct of robot anxiety as follows:

>"We define robot anxiety as the emotions of anxiety or fear preventing individuals from interaction with robots having functions of communication in daily life, in particular, communication in a human-robot dyad." (p. 373)

# Rating = 69% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
item development reported in 2003 paper

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4107836&casa_token=VhqVBX7jZ2AAAAAA:Sa5hEYwcbp8RvhhQ8ifENX6efjqvSzCMDApYeDSvBN_KSGFfQHmQbfFNrZa3qXytKP5qYNysrjk&tag=1){:target="_blank"}
<br>Nomura, T., Suzuki, T., Kanda, T., & Kato, K. (2006, September). Measurement of anxiety toward robots. In ROMAN 2006-The 15th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (pp. 372-377). IEEE.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or click [here]({% post_url 2024-06-20-submitScale %}) to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (11 total):

**Anxiety toward communication capability of robots**
<br>Robots may talk about something irrelevant during conversation
<br>Conversation with robots may be inflexible
<br>Robots may be unable to understand complex stories

**Anxiety toward behavioral characteristics of robots**
<br>how robots will act
<br>what robots will do
<br>what power robots will have
<br>what speed robots will move at

**Anxiety toward discourse with robots**
<br>How I should talk with robots
<br>How I should reply to robots when they talk to me
<br>Whether robots understand the contents of my utterance to them
<br>I may be unable to udnerstand the contents of robots' utterances to me

