---
layout: post
title: General Attitudes Towards Robots Scale (GAToRS)
category: "attitudes"
pubyear: 2022
pubauthor: koverola
scalename: GAToRS
date:   2024-06-03 11:00:41 -0400
---
**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the construct of general attitudes towards robots as having four attitude factors:

>1. Personal level positive (P+): comfort and enjoyment around robots 
>2. Personal level negative (P−): unease and anxiety around robots 
>3. Societal level positive (S+): rational hopes about robots in general 
>4. Societal level negative (S−): rational worries about robots in general

The authors also define an attitude as follows: 

>"An attitude is a psychological tendency that is expressed by evaluating a particular entity with some degree of favour or disfavour." (p. 1)

# Rating = 100% 


<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final number of items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


**Comments**
<br> none

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads

[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-022-00880-3){:target="_blank"}
<br>Koverola, M., Kunnari, A., Sundvall, J., & Laakasuo, M. (2022). General attitudes towards robots scale (GAToRS): A new instrument for social surveys. International Journal of Social Robotics, 14(7), 1559-1581.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or click [here]({% post_url 2024-06-20-submitScale %}) to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (20 total):

**Personal Level Positive Attitude (P+)**
<br>I can trust persons and organizations related to development of robots
<br>Persons and organizations related to development of robots will consider the needs, thoughts and feelings of their users
<br>I can trust a robot
<br>I would feel relaxed talking with a robot
<br>If robots had emotions, I would be able to befriend them

**Personal Level Negative Attitude (P-)**
<br>I would feel uneasy if I was given a job where I had to use robots
<br>I fear that a robot would not understand my commands
<br>Robots scare me
<br>I would feel very nervous just being around a robot
<br>I don’t want a robot to touch me

**Societal Level Positive Attitude (S+)**
<br>Robots are necessary because they can do jobs that are too hard or too dangerous for people
<br>Robots can make life easier
<br>Assigning routine tasks to robots lets people do more meaningful tasks
<br>Dangerous tasks should primarily be given to robots
<br>Robots are a good thing for society, because they help people

**Societal Level Negative Attitude (S-)**
<br>Robots may make us even lazier
<br>Widespread use of robots is going to take away jobs from people
<br>I am afraid that robots will encourage less interaction between humans
<br>Robotics is one of the areas of technology that needs to be closely monitored
<br>Unregulated use of robotics can lead to societal upheavals

