---
layout: post
title: Human Robot Interaction Stress Scale (HRISS)
category: "Attitudes/Attributes"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: Babamiri et al.
scalename: HRISS
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

This scale aims to measure:
 
>"occupational stress among workers engaged in collaborative tasks with robots within modern working environments." (p. 2) 


# Rating = 62% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-024-01183-5){:target="_blank"}
<br>Babamiri, M., Heidarimoghadam, R., Ghasemi, F., Tapak, L., & Mortezapour, A. (2024). Going Beyond General Stress Scales: Developing a New Questionnaire to Measure Stress in Human-Robot Interaction. International Journal of Social Robotics, 16(11), 2243-2259.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (46 total):
Bolded category labels are referred to as scales and italicized category labels are referred to as sub-scales in the paper.

**Human-related Factors**
*Situation Awareness*
<br>wWhen working with the robot, I must pay close attention in order to obtain the necessary information
<br>There are times when I am unable to interpret the information obtained when working
with the robot

*Resilience*
<br>When the robot is in trouble, I can keep my stress and fear under control
<br>I/m extremely highly adaptable to technical changes in the manufacturing line
<br>I know what I need to do to relax at work when situations get stressful

*Self-efficacy*
<br>I am confident in my ability to do both easy and difficult job-related duties
<br>I believe I could accomplish my job if I worked in another robotics department instead
of this one
<br>I feel I have the skills required to work with robots

*Trust*
<br>I am confident in the behavior of the robot with which I am working
<br>I am confident in the components generated by the robots because of robots’ high quality and precision
<br>I believe that the robots will be able to work for years without any major issues

*Competency*
<br>I can comprehend a robot’s present condition and, if necessary, control it with suitable
inputs
<br>I am able to understand the topics essential to operate successfully with a robot by
attending training courses and classes
<br>I know how to tackle any problems that may develop when working with the robot

*Affinity*
<br>Working on the production line with a robot attracts (excites) me
<br>I’m curious about how the robot operates
<br>It is not difficult for me to learn about and use new technology

*Fear of substitution*
<br>I believe that in the near future robots will take over all jobs, leaving humans
unemployed

**Task-related Factors**
*To remaining update*
<br>Because robots are advancing at such a quick speed, I must keep my knowledge up to
date
<br>In order to remain update, I have to attend several in-service classes

*Job Demands*
<br>I’m tired of having to work on a robot that does not understand the meaning of fatigue
<br>The robots’ speed is too fast that I constantly find myself running out of time to work
with them (I am under time pressure)
<br>Working with the robot puts me under a great deal of mental and psychological
pressure

*Environmental Condition*
<br>Due to bad working conditions, if I receive another job offer, I would very surely quit
my current job and take the new one 
<br>The environmental conditions in this robotic workplace, such as noise, vibration, and
dust, are extremely hazardous to my health, and I am concerned

*Skill Utilization*
<br>My job required me to put my capabilities to practice 
<br>In my job, I use the training I received before/after my employment

*Technical Support*
<br>The company’s technical staff arrives immediately to resolve the robot’s problems 
<br>In my opinion, the company’s technical experts have the essential expertise and competence to handle robot problems
<br>The training provided by the technical support team is sufficient to prevent the problem
from recurring

*Decision Complexity*
<br>My job frequently compels me to make complex decisions. 
<br>My job is so difficult that I am embarrassed 
<br>Because there are so many, I’m not sure which regulation or guideline to use when an
issue emerges

**Robot-related Factors**
*Usability*
<br>The robot with which I work in this unit is capable of achieving excellent results
<br>I’m satisfied with the robot with which I work. 
<br>My robot teammate is able to save time, money, and waste 
<br>This robot is easy to use 
<br>This robot gives the operator with useful feedback from the current situation

*Level of Automation*
<br>I can adjust the robot if necessary (e.g. slowing it down)
<br>When I work at my job, I have complete control over the robot

*Safety*
<br>So far, our colleagues have been involved in an accident caused by the robot’s malfunction rather than their own irresponsibility 
<br>In my opinion, the movement of The robot’s arms are extremely unsafe

*Software/Hardware problems*
<br>This robot typically lacks the essential performance owing to a variety of software
issues such as hanging, locking, not responding appropriately to commands, and so on 
<br>In general, we have a lot of lost time because this robot broke down and they are fixing
it
<br>The robot has so many troubles that it requires a professional, up-to-date, and patient
maintenance team


