---
layout: post
title: USE Questionnaire
category: "usability"
pubyear: 2001
pubauthor: Kund
scalename: USE
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The author claims that the scale was developed to measure:

>"the most important dimensions of usability for users, and to measure those dimensions across domains. Ideally it should work for software, hardware, services, and user support materials." (p. 2)

and defines usability as consisting of three dimensions: usefulness, ease of use, and satisfaction.



# Rating = 23% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Very little detail on the scale development process contained in the publication.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Arnold-Lund/publication/230786746_Measuring_Usability_with_the_USE_Questionnaire/links/56e5a90e08ae98445c21561c/Measuring-Usability-with-the-USE-Questionnaire.pdf){:target="_blank"}
<br>Lund, A. M. (2001). Measuring usability with the use questionnaire12. Usability interface, 8(2), 3-6.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (30 total):

**USEFULNESS**
<br>It helps me be more effective.
<br>It helps me be more productive.
<br>It is useful.
<br>It gives me more control over the activities in my life.
<br>It makes the things I want to accomplish easier to get done.
<br>It saves me time when I use it.
<br>It meets my needs.
<br>It does everything I would expect it to do.

**EASE OF USE**
<br>It is easy to use.
<br>It is simple to use.
<br>It is user friendly.
<br>It requires the fewest steps possible to accomplish what I want to do with it.
<br>It is flexible.
<br>Using it is effortless.
<br>I can use it without written instructions.
<br>I don't notice any inconsistencies as I use it.
<br>Both occasional and regular users would like it.
<br>I can recover from mistakes quickly and easily.
<br>I can use it successfully every time.

**EASE OF LEARNING**
<br>I learned to use it quickly.
<br>I easily remember how to use it.
<br>It is easy to learn to use it.
<br>I quickly became skillful with it.

**SATISFACTION**
<br>I am satisfied with it.
<br>I would recommend it to a friend.
<br>It is fun to use.
<br>It works the way I want it to work.
<br>It is wonderful.
<br>I feel I need to have it.
<br>It is pleasant to use.






