---
layout: post
title: Anthropomorphic Tendencies Scale (ATS)
category: "attitudes/attributes"
pubyear: 2004
pubauthor: chin et al.
scalename: ATS
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors aim to understand why some people exhibit anthropomorphic tendencies more than others. They do not provide a definition of anthropomorphic tendencies. They define anthropomorphism as:

>"the attribution of human qualities, such as mental states or emotions, to nonhuman entities, including artifacts and animals." (p. 1252)

# Rating = 31% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td> NA </td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/154193120404801110){:target="_blank"}
<br>Chin, M. G., Sims, V. K., Clark, B., & Lopez, G. R. (2004, September). Measuring individual differences in anthropomorphism toward machines and animals. In Proceedings of the human factors and ergonomics society annual meeting (Vol. 48, No. 11, pp. 1252-1255). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (12 total):

Not reported.