---
layout: post
title: Attitudes Towards Robots Measure (ARM)
category: "attitudes"
pubyear: 2023
pubauthor: Spatola et al.
scalename: ARM 
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define attitudes as:

>"Attitudes can be defined as a mental state towards an object, an agent, or an action, and are shaped by experience, observation, learning, and social factors [35]. They predispose individuals to act in a certain way and are crucial in explaining behavior when encountering new agents, including both humans [36] and robots [37]. Attitudes are constructs, such as feelings, associated with objects, such as robots. Importantly, attitudes are multifactorial, meaning that they depend on and result from various retroactive inputs and outputs." (p. 1685)

and they define three key dimensions that are related to attitudes towards robots:

>prior anxiety, prior acceptance, prior anthropomorphism. (p. 1691-1692)
 

# Rating = 77% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-023-01056-3){:target="_blank"}
<br>Spatola, N., Wudarczyk, O. A., Nomura, T., & Cherif, E. (2023). Attitudes Towards Robots Measure (ARM): A New Measurement Tool Aggregating Previous Scales Assessing Attitudes Toward Robots. International Journal of Social Robotics, 15(9), 1683-1701.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (15 total):

**Prior Anxiety**
<br>I am afraid that humanoid robots will make us forget what it is like to be human
<br>I am afraid that humanoid robots will encourage less interaction between humans.
<br>I am concerned that robots would be a bad influence on children
<br>I don’t know why, but humanoid robots scare me. 
<br>I feel that if I depend on robots too much, something bad might happen

**Prior Acceptance**
<br>I would want to boast that I have a robot in my home.
<br>I want to tame a robot according to my preferences.
<br>I feel the necessity for robots in my daily life. 
<br>I feel easy around robots because I do not need to pay attention to robots as I do to humans.
<br>If a robot is introduced to my home, I think my children or grandchildren will be pleased.

**Prior Anthropomorphism**
<br>I think robots will be able to perceive what I am going to do before I do it.
<br>I think robots will be more than a machine. 
<br>I think robots will have sense of humour.
<br>I am afraid that humanoid robots will make us forget what it is like to be human
<br>I am afraid that humanoid robots will encourage less interaction between humans.

