---
layout: post
title: Almere Social Presence
category: "social"
pubyear: 2010
pubauthor: Heenrink et al.
scalename: Almere
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define acceptance of assistive social robots as consisting of intention to use and actual usage. They theorize that 7 constructs play a significant role as direct determinants of intention to use and actual usage:

>Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, perceived enjoyment, trust, attitude, social influence, and facilitating conditions. Anxiety, Perceived Sociability, Perceived Social Presence and perceived Adaptivity are theorized not to be direct determinants of Intention to Use. (p. 365-366)
 

# Rating = 46% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Unclear if the scale was developed in Dutch. 

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s12369-010-0068-5.pdf){:target="_blank"}
<br>Heerink, M., Kröse, B., Evers, V., & Wielinga, B. (2010). Assessing acceptance of assistive social agent technology by older adults: the almere model.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (41 total):
**Anxiety**
<br>If I should use the robot, I would be afraid to make mistakes with it
<br>If I should use the robot, I would be afraid to break something
<br>I find the robot scary
<br>I find the robot intimidating

**Attitude** 
<br>I think it’s a good idea to use the robot
<br>The robot would make life more interesting
<br>It’s good to make use of the robot

**Facilitating conditions**
<br>I have everything I need to use the robot
<br>I know enough of the robot to make good use of it

**Intention to use** 
<br>I think I’ll use the robot during the next few days
<br>I’m certain to use the robot during the next few
days
<br>I plan to use the robot during the next few days

**Perceived adaptiveness**
<br>I think the robot can be adaptive to what I need
<br>I think the robot will only do what I need at that particular moment 
<br>I think the robot will help me when I consider it to be necessary

**Perceived Enjoyment** 
<br>I enjoy the robot talking to me
<br>I enjoy doing things with the robot
<br>I find the robot enjoyable
<br>I find the robot fascinating
<br>I find the robot boring

**Perceived ease of use** 
<br>I think I will know quickly how to use the robot
<br>I find the robot easy to use
<br>I think I can use the robot without any help
<br>I think I can use the robot when there is someone
around to help me
<br>I think I can use the robot when I have a good
manual

**Perceived sociability**
<br>I consider the robot a pleasant conversational
partner
<br>I find the robot pleasant to interact with
<br>I feel the robot understands me
<br>I think the robot is nice

**Perceived usefulness**
<br>I think the robot is useful to me
<br>It would be convenient for me to have the robot
<br>I think the robot can help me with many things

**Social influence**
<br>I think the staff would like me using the robot
<br>I think it would give a good impression if I should use the robot

**Social presence**
<br>When interacting with the robot I felt like I’m
talking to a real person
<br>It sometimes felt as if the robot was really looking at me
<br>I can imagine the robot to be a living creature
<br>I often think the robot is not a real person
<br>Sometimes the robot seems to have real feelings

**Trust**
<br>I would trust the robot if it gave me advice
<br>I would follow the advice the robot gives me