---
layout: post
title: Rethinking People's Conception of Mental Life
category: "Mind Perception"
pubyear: 2017
pubauthor: weisman
scalename: 
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

Aim to determine:

>"What do people consider to be the fundamental components of the mind?" (p. 11377)
    

# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NA</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Evidence for a consistent pattern across multiple entities was considered a test of validity.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.pnas.org/doi/abs/10.1073/pnas.1704347114){:target="_blank"}
<br>Weisman, K., Dweck, C. S., & Markman, E. M. (2017). Rethinking people’s conceptions of mental life. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 114(43), 11374-11379.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (40 total):

**Body**
<br>getting hungry
<br>experiencing pain
<br>feeling tired
<br>experiencing fear
<br>experiencing pleasure
<br>doing computations
<br>having free will
<br>being conscious
<br>feeling safe
<br>having desires
<br>feeling nauseated
<br>feeling calm
<br>getting angry
<br>having intentions
<br>being self-aware

**Heart**
<br>feeling embarrassed
<br>experiencing pride
<br>feeling love
<br>experiencing guilt
<br>holding beliefs
<br>feeling disrespected
<br>feeling depressed
<br>understanding how others are feeling
<br> experiencing joy
<br>having a personality
<br>feeling happy
<br>telling right from wrong
<br>exercising self-restraint
<br>having thoughts

**Mind**
<br>remembering things
<br>recognizing others
<br>sensing temperatures
<br>communicating with others
<br>seeing things
<br>perceiving depth
<br>working toward a goal
<br>detecting sounds
<br>making choices
<br>reasoning about things
<br>detecting odors





