---
layout: post
title: Connection-Coordination Rapport Scale
category: "Social"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: Lin et al.
scalename: CCR
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale. There is also a short-form version.**
# Downloads
<br>
[PAPER](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2501.11887){:target="_blank"}
Lin, T. H., Dinner, H., Leung, T. L., Mutlu, B., Trafton, J. G., & Sebo, S. (2025, March). Connection-Coordination rapport (CCR) scale: a dual-factor scale to measure human-robot rapport. In 2025 20th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) (pp. 869-879). IEEE.

# Construct Summary

The authors define rapport as:

>"A feeling of mutual understanding and interpersonal connection among individuals developed through interactions" (p. 2)

# Final Scale Items (18 total):

Question wording: “Rate how much you think the following was present in the interaction.” A five-point scale was used: Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree or Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree. 

**Connection:** Warmth, Empathy, Friendliness, Sympathy, Closeness, Positivity, Liking each other, Enthusiasm, Respect, Getting along, Excitement, Connection

**Coordination:** Coordination, Focus, Attentiveness, Smooth flow, Equal participation, Engagement

# Rating = 100% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

