---
layout: post
title: Machines As Social Entities (MASE)
category: "Social"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: Hong
scalename: MASE
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors state:

>"The aim of this paper is to create a scale that can measure beliefs in machines as social actors." (p. 66)

They define actors as:

>"social entities that compose and interact with netowrks." (p. 67)
 

# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/08944393231167211?casa_token=BXRLteBsixcAAAAA%3ASjyLaBf9dMCLitsHsUAP1X_sCm1O2R_o4tZEDPjCXrOWVltr3NDTxAhY6vvhDDgG_oNmdY4qoJkCjw){:target="_blank"}
<br>Hong, J. W. (2024). Machines as social entities (MASE) scale: Validation of a new scale measuring beliefs in the sociality of intelligent machine agents. Social Science Computer Review, 42(1), 65-83.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (14 total):
7 point Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree)

**Social Capacity**
<br>Machines can have social skills.
<br>Machines can become sociable beings.
<br>Machines can play an important role in people's social lives.
<br>Machines can have social influence.

**Emotional Experience**
<br>Machines can feel desire.
<br>Machines can feel fear.
<br>Machines can have personalities.
<br>Machines can feel pride.
<br>Machines can have consciousness.
<br>Machines can feel rage.
<br>Machines can feel joy.

**Social Legitimacy**
<br>Machines will accept commonly help social beliefs.
<br>Machines deserve their own rights as society members.
<br>I would treat machines the same way I treat other people.




