---
layout: post
title: Human Robot Interaction Evaluation Scale (HRIES)
category: "Social"
pubyear: 2021
pubauthor: Spatola et al.
scalename: HRIES
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The scale aims to measure the "the perception of robots in HRI psychosocial manipulations" (p. 1519) The authors propose a four factor definition of this construct:

> [Sociability] represents the social constructs that are positively related to the intent of interaction with others [40, 41, 134]. Sociability is the ability of an individual or a group of individuals to evolve in society. (p. 1522)
>[Disturbance] represents the negative perception of robots in terms of uncomfortable feelings and perceptions. (p. 1522)
>[Agency] regroups items relevant to the evaluation of the attribution of traits defined as “uniquely human” [50] with a form of agency. (p. 1523)
>[Animacy] regroups items: “Human-like”, “Real”, “Alive”, and “Natural”, suggesting human characteristics for non-human agents. (p. 1523)


# Rating = 92% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
This scale has a broad construct definition. The initial set of items is from study 1. Additional scale validation (described in study 4) used the French translation of the scale.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-020-00667-4){:target="_blank"}
<br>Spatola, N., Kühnlenz, B., & Cheng, G. (2021). Perception and evaluation in human–robot interaction: The Human–Robot Interaction Evaluation Scale (HRIES)—A multicomponent approach of anthropomorphism. International Journal of Social Robotics, 13(7), 1517-1539.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (16 total):

Using the scale provided, how closely are the words below associated with the [robot stimuli to evaluate]? From 1 “not at all” to 7 “totally”.

**Sociability**
<br>warm
<br>likeable
<br>trustworthy
<br>friendly

**Agency**
<br>self-reliant
<br>rational
<br>intentional
<br>intelligent

**Animacy**
<br>alive
<br>natural
<br>real
<br>human-like

**Disturbance**
<br>creepy
<br>scary
<br>uncanny
<br>weird
