---
layout: post
title: Unidimensional Mind Perception
category: "Mind Perception"
pubyear: 2022
pubauthor: Tzelios
scalename: 
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

>"we present the steps taken for developing and validating a novel, versatile, and encompassing scale for assessing attitudes related to robot rights entitlement." (p. 6)
    

# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10447318.2024.2338332){:target="_blank"}
<br>Mays, K. K., Cummings, J. J., & Katz, J. E. (2024). The Robot Rights and Responsibilities Scale: Development and Validation of a Metric for Understanding Perceptions of Robots’ Rights and Responsibilities. International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction, 1-18.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (30 total):
Use a 7-point LIkert response scale (endpoints undefined in paper)

**Rights**
<br>Robots that work together should be able to form their own trade unions.
<br>Robots should be allowed to sue anyone who commits crimes against them.
<br>Robots should be able to hold whatever views they wish.
<br>Robots should receive the payment for any writing, artwork, or other creations that they sell.
<br>Robots should have the right to some free time for themselves.
<br>Robots should be able to decide whether they want to make improvements to their programming.
<br>Robots should be allowed to become citizens of a country. 
<br>Robots should be allowed to vote.
<br>Robots should have full access to and control over their own programming and source code.
<br>Robots should be able to control how much access people have to their internal mental states and processing.
<br>Robots should be allowed to serve on juries. 
<br>Robots should be paid for the work that they do.
<br>Robots should have the right to consent to partnering with another robot.
<br>Robots should have a say in any programming changes or software updates for themselves.
<br>Robots should have the right to a legal defense.
<br>Robots should be able to decide for themselves when they get turned off.
<br>Robots should be allowed to partner with/marry other robots.
<br>Robots should be allowed to adopt other robots.
<br>Robots should be allowed to obtain copyrights or patents for their creative or scientific productions.

**Responsibilities**
<br>Robots have a responsibility to behave with integrity, honesty, and fairness.
<br>Robots have a responsibility to respect all forms of life.
<br>Robots have a responsibility to treat all other beings (human and non-humans) well.
<br>Robots have a responsibility to act in peaceful, non-violent ways.
<br>Robots have a responsibility to respect human life.

**Capabilities**
<br>It is OK to create robots that can lift much more weight than any person can.
<br>It is OK to create robots that have telescopic vision, meaning they can see much farther and better than people can.
<br>It is OK to create robots that can move much faster than people can.
<br>It is OK to create robots that can jump higher than any person can.
<br>It is OK to create robots that can move like people.
<br>It is OK to create robots that can think faster than humans can.





