---
layout: post
title: Individual Differences in Anthropomorphism Questionnaire (IDAQ)
category: "anthropomorphism"
pubyear: 2010
pubauthor: Waytz et al.
scalename: IDAQ
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors report that this scale measures individual differences in people's tendency to anthropomorphize. The scale contains two dimensions: anthropomorphism of animals & anthropomorphism of non-animals.
 

# Rating = 69% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Initial version of the items was 40 and those 10 additional items that were used in the first EFA were not listed in the appendix.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1745691610369336?casa_token=XRHCgHBq-W4AAAAA%3AGeBFfzK3zKSXPOK4dWPOJkB6UghLIJEnz4Jx2UG6KLaRXJBQYPC46R0emnDqagC3JYmbV42nL_CLeA&journalCode=ppsa){:target="_blank"}
<br>Waytz, A., Cacioppo, J., & Epley, N. (2010). Who sees human? The stability and importance of individual differences in anthropomorphism. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 5(3), 219-232.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (15 total):

**Anthropomorphism of animals**
<br>To what extent does the average fish have free will?
<br>To what extent do cows have intentions?
<br>To what extent does a cheetah experience emotions?
<br>To what extent does the average insect have a mind of its own?
<br>To what extent does the average reptile have consciousness?

**Anthropomorphism of non-animals**
<br>To what extent does technology - devices and machines for manufacturing, entertainment, and productive processes (e.g., cars, computers, television sets) - have intentions?
<br>To what extent does the average mountain have free will?
<br>To what extent does a television set experience emotions?
<br>To what extent does the average robot have consciousness?
<br>To what extent does a car have free will?
<br>To what extent does the ocean have consciousness?
<br>To what extent does the average computer have a mind of its own?
<br>To what extent does the environment experience emotions?
<br>To what extent does a tree have a mind of its own?
<br>To what extent does the wind have intentions?
