---
layout: post
title: System Usability Scale (SUS)
category: "usability"
pubyear: 1996
pubauthor: Brooke
scalename: SUS
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The author define usability as:

>"the usability of any tool or system has to be viewed in terms of the context in which it is used, and its appropriateness to that context." (p. 2)

and claim that it should cover:

>"effectiveness ( the ability of users to complete tasks using the system, and the quality of the output of those tasks), efficiency ( the level of resource consumed in performing tasks, and satisfaction (users’ subjective reactions to using the system)" (p. 3)
 

# Rating = 23% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.taylorfrancis.com/chapters/edit/10.1201/9781498710411-35/sus-quick-dirty-usability-scale-john-brooke){:target="_blank"}
<br>Brooke, J. (1996). SUS-A quick and dirty usability scale. Usability evaluation in industry, 189(194), 4-7.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are located in the PDF version of the paper at the link above.

# Final Scale Items (10 total):

I think that I would like to use this system frequently.
<br>I found the system unnecessarily complex.
<br>I thought the system was easy to use.
<br>I think that I would need the support of a technical person to be able to use this system.
<br>I found the various functions in this system well-integrated.
<br>I thought there was too much inconsistency in this system.
<br>I would imagine that most people would learn to use this system very quickly.
<br>I found the system very cumbersome to use.
<br>I felt very confident using the system.
<br>I needed to learn a lot of things before I could get going with this system.




