---
layout: post
title: Trust in Automation (TiA)
category: "Trust"
pubyear: 2019
pubauthor: Körber et al.
scalename: TiA
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define trust in automation as:

>"the attitude of a user to be willing to be vulnerable to the actions of an automated system based on the expectation that it will perform a particular action important to the user, irrespective of the ability to monitor or to intervene." (p. 4)
 

# Rating = 62% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
The authors added two items after the whole analysis. Therefore, checks given for item and scale development guideline criteria does not include these additional items. )

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-96074-6_2){:target="_blank"}
<br>Körber, M. (2019). Theoretical considerations and development of a questionnaire to measure trust in automation. In Proceedings of the 20th Congress of the International Ergonomics Association (IEA 2018) Volume VI: Transport Ergonomics and Human Factors (TEHF), Aerospace Human Factors and Ergonomics 20 (pp. 13-30). Springer International Publishing.

<br>A blank scale, scoring instructions, and administration information can be found in the online Github [repository](https://github.com/moritzkoerber/TiA_Trust_in_Automation_Questionnaire/tree/master/1_manual){:target="_blank"}

# Final Scale Items (19 total):

The system is capable of interpreting situations correctly. 
<br> The system state was always clear to me.
<br>I already know similar systems.
<br>The developers are trustworthy.
<br>One should be careful with unfamiliar automated systems.
<br>The system works reliably.
<br>The system reacts unpredictably.
<br>The developers take my well-being seriously.
<br>I trust the system.
<br>A system malfunction is likely.
<br>I was able to understand why things happened.
<br>I rather trust a system than I mistrust it.
<br>The system is capable of taking over complicated tasks.
<br>I can rely on the system.
<br>The system might make sporadic errors.
<br>It is difficult to identify what the system with do next.
<br>I have already used similar systems.
<br>Automated systems generally work well.
<br>I am confident about the system's capabilities.