---
layout: post
title: Perceived Danger Scale (PD)
category: "Social"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: Molan et al.
scalename: PD
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

>"Perceived danger is the anticipation of harmful consequences of the actual or imagined interaction with another entity." (p. 2)

# Rating = 100% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
In Press

# Final Scale Items (12 total):

**Affective States**
<br>How nervous did you feel?
<br>How anxious did you feel?
<br>How stressed did you feel?

**Physical Vulnerability**
<br>How exposed to physical injury were you?
<br>How severely might you have been injured?
<br>How likely was the robot to cause pain?

**Ominousness**
<br>How menacing was the robot?
<br>How threatening was the robot?
<br>How intimidating was the robot?

**Cognitive Readiness**
<br>How alert were you?
<br>How vigilant were you?
<br>How cautious were you?
