---
layout: post
title: Scale of Social Robot Anthropomorphism (SSRA)
category: "anthropomorphism"
pubyear: 2024
pubauthor: chi et al.
scalename: SSRA
---

**This is the most up-to-date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

After a brief initial literature review, the authors first define social robot anthropomorphism as:
> "the perception of human-like qualities in a robot, often prompted by the recognition of human-like traits within the robot, encompassing multiple dimensions." (p 4)

<br> but later, after further theoretical review, define it as:

>"a customer’s perception of the human-like level of a social robot that is formed by the robot’s human-like appearance, social intelligence, emotional capacity, and self-understanding" (p. 6)


# Rating = 92% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**


# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/10946705241297196?casa_token=_he0Y3u9vbgAAAAA%3AjUBE-nkMM0I487mmIGw1Oy5cGBW1QfU7Te_sT184RZyhSqxyKBp_3prAYRQEKjU-YhQhFULjBKmK3w){:target="_blank"}
<br>Chi, O. H., Chi, C. G., & Gursoy, D. (2024). Seeing Personhood in Machines: Conceptualizing Anthropomorphism of Social Robots. Journal of Service Research, 10946705241297196.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (20 total):

**Human-like Appearance (HA)**
<br>The robot looks as natural as a human being.
<br>The robot has a human-like appearance.
<br>The robot looks lifelike.
<br>THe robot has human0like motion and gestures.
<br>The robot looks alive.
<br>The robot has human-like facial expressions.

**Self-understanding (SU)**
<br>The robot has consciousness.
<br>The robot has its own free will.
<br>The robot has intentions.
<br>The robot has a mind of its own.
<br>The robot has values and norms.
<br>The robot knows the meaning of life.

**Social intelligence (SI)**
<br>The robot can quickly resond to the conversation.
<br>The robot is capable to interact with a human.
<br>The robot can understand what people say.
<br>The robot speaks in the way that a human does.
<br>The robot can provide appropriate answers in the conversation like a human.

**Emotion capability (EC)**
<br>The robot can recognize others' emotions.
<br>The robot can react to others' emotions.
<br>The robot can express its emotions.