---
layout: post
title: Subjective Workload Assessment Technique (SWAT)
category: "workload"
pubyear: 1988
pubauthor: Reid
scalename: Workload
---

**This scale has additional, shortened versions that are not currently included in this database. See comments for more information.**

# Construct Summary

The authors aimed to develop a measure to measure mental workload. They define workload as consisting of three main factors: time load, mental effort load, and psychological stress load. They define time load as 


# Rating = 46% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>NA</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Score reflects assessment only on the Likert scale analysis reported in the paper. The initial conjoint scaling procedure outlined in the paper is a somewhat outdated approach to measurement (though it was the best available approach at the time of publication). To find more information on the shortened versions see Luximon & Goonetilleke (2001).

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0166411508623870){:target="_blank"}
<br>Reid, G. B., & Nygren, T. E. (1988). The subjective workload assessment technique: A scaling procedure for measuring mental workload. In Advances in psychology (Vol. 52, pp. 185-218). North-Holland.

<br>PDF of instructions for administration and score not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (3 total):

**Time load**
<br>1. Often have spare time. Interruptions of overlap among activities occur infrequently or not at all.
<br>2. Occaisionally have spare time. Interruptions or overlap among activities occur frequently.
<br>3. Almost never have spare time. Interruptions or overlap among activities are very frequent, or occur all the time.

**Mental Effort Load**
<br>1. Very little conscious mental effort or concentration required. Activity is almost automatic, requiring little or no attention.
<br>2. Moderate conscious mental effort or concentration required. Complexity of activity is moderately high due to uncertainty, unpredictability, or unfamiliarity. Considerable attention required.
<br>3.Extensive mental effort and concentration are necessary. Very complex activity requiring total attention.

**Psychological Stress Load**
<br>1. Little confusion, risk, frustration, or anxiety exists and can be easily accomodated.
<br>2. Moderate stress due to confusion, frustration, or anxiety noticeably adds to workload. Significant compensation is required to maintain adequate performance.
<br>3. High to very intense stress due to confusion, frustration, or anxiety. High to extreme determination and self-control required.