---
layout: post
title: Dimensions of Mind Perception (MMP35)
category: "Mind/Agency Perception"
pubyear: 2019
pubauthor: Malle
scalename: MMP35
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

>What are the dimensions of mind? Our results suggest that people’s ascriptions of mental capacities follow at least three major axes.
>Dimension A [positive and negative affect] unites aspects of physiological and positive as well as negative emotional capacities that are largely unintentional. 
>Dimension 2 encompasses aspects of both moral cognition and social cognition, which itself includes the simulation of one’s own mind (e.g., planning) and others’ minds (e.g., inferring their thoughts); its appropriate label may thus be Moral & Social Cognition. 
>Dimension R [reality interaction] illustrates the dynamic transition from perception and cognition through learning to communication and action—a second more specific meaning of agency. (p. 6)


# Rating = 85% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
None

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://research.clps.brown.edu/SocCogSci/Publications/Pubs/Malle_2019_How_Many_Dimensions.pdf){:target="_blank"}
<br>Gray, H. M., Gray, K., & Wegner, D. M. (2007). Dimensions of mind perception. science, 315(5812), 619-619.

<br>Administration instructions and scoring information located in the [supplementary material](http://bit.ly/SA_MindCapacities){:target="_blank"}

# Final Scale Items (20 total):


**Positive Affect**
<br>feeling happy
<br>loving specific people
<br>feeling pleasure
<br>experiencing gratitude


**Negative Affect**
<br>feeling pain
<br>feeling stress
<br>experiencing fear
<br>feeling tired

**Moral Cognition**
<br>disapproving of immoral actions
<br>telling right from wrong
<br>upholding moral values
<br>praising moral actions

**Social Cognition**
<br>inferring a person's thinking
<br>planning for the future
<br>understanding others' minds
<br>setting goals

**Reality Interaction**
<br>communicating verbally
<br>seeing and hearing the world
<br>learning from instruction
<br>moving on their own