---
layout: post
title: Uncanny Valley Effect
category: "Social"
pubyear: 2017
pubauthor: Ho and MacDormand
scalename: Uncanny Valley
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

The authors define the uncanny valley effect as:

>"...cold, eerie feelings, associated with, but not equivalent to, fear, anxiety, and disgust, a loss of empathy, and avoidance behavior." (p. 1)

# Rating = 69% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
CFA was not run on a new sample. Definition is ambiguous. Test of validity was an internal correlation between factors.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;


# Downloads
[PAPER](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12369-016-0380-9){:target="_blank"}
<br>Ho, C. C., & MacDorman, K. F. (2017). Measuring the uncanny valley effect: Refinements to indices for perceived humanness, attractiveness, and eeriness. International Journal of Social Robotics, 9, 129-139.

<br>PDF of scale as well as instructions for administration and scoring are not readily available. Check the paper for more details or email hriscaledatabase@gmail.com to submit this information if you are the author of this scale.

# Final Scale Items (18 total):

Items are semantic differential recorded at 7-point values ranging from -3 to +3. The eeriness factor is split into eerie and spine-tingling subfactors. Items with * are contained within the sub-factor spine-tingling.

**Perceived Humanness**
<br>Without Definite Lifespan-Immortal
<br>Synthetic-Real
<br>Inanimate-Living
<br>Mechanical Movement-Biological Movement
<br>Human-made-Humanlike

**Attractiveness**
<br>Messy-Sleek
<br>Repulsive-Agreeable
<br>Crude-Stylish
<br>Ugly-Beautiful

**Eeriness**
<br>Dull-Freak
<br>Ordinary-Supernatural
<br>Plain-Weird
<br>Predictable-Eerie
<br>Uninspiring-Spine-tingling*
<br>Bland-Uncanny*
<br>Boring-Shocking*
<br>Predictable-Thrilling*
<br>Unemotional-Hair-raising*