---
layout: post
title: Trust in Automation
category: "trust"
pubyear: 1998
pubauthor: Jian
scalename: TIA
---

**This is the most up to date version of this scale.**

# Construct Summary

There is no stated definition of the construct in the paper. The construct label is "trust".
    

# Rating = 46% 

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Check?</th>
      <th>Guideline Item</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Is the construct defined?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Does the final version of the items capture the construct as it has been defined by the authors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is the item generation process discussed (e.g., literature review, Delphi method, crowd-sourcing)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Person to items 10:1 for the initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they perform an EFA, PCA, Rasch, or similar test to determine the item to factor relationship?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they describe how they determined number of factors?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they report the full initial set of items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they provide loadings (EFA) or item fits (Rasch) of all items?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Is there a description of the item removal process (e.g., using infit/outfit, factor loading minimum value, or cross-loading values)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&#10003;</td>
      <td>Did they list the final items included in the scale?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Did they include a factor structure test (e.g., second EFA, CFA, DIF, test for unidimensionality when using Rasch, or similar)?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a measure of reliability (e.g., Cronbach’s alpha, McDonalds Omega_h or Omega_t, Tarkkonen’s Rho) reported?</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="color: red;">&#10006;</td>
      <td>Was a test of validity (e.g., predictive, concurrent, convergent, discriminant) reported?</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Comments**
Item generation process was non-standard. During scale development the tested items were words but final scale consists of statements. The process of moving from words to statements was not reported. Additionally, it is unclear whether the statements as items were ever tested. PCA was conducted but the interpretation and the analysis was non-standard. Determination of number of factors was also non-standard. Cluster analysis results are unclear as clusters reported in table 5 (which were used to determine factors) seem to match with human-human clusters.

# Reviewed by Experts &#10003;

# Downloads
[PAPER](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1207/S15327566IJCE0401_04){:target="_blank"}
<br>Jian, J. Y., Bisantz, A. M., & Drury, C. G. (2000). Foundations for an empirically determined scale of trust in automated systems. International journal of cognitive ergonomics, 4(1), 53-71.

<br>PDF of scale and instructions for administration and scoring can be found in the original paper. 

# Final Scale Items (12 total):
Use a 7-point LIkert response scale: 1 (Not at all) to 7 (Extremely)

<br>The system is deceptive
<br>The system behaves in an underhanded manner
<br>I am suspicious of the system's intent, action, or output
<br>I am wary of the system
<br>The system's action will have a harmful or injurious outcome
<br>I am confident in the system
<br>The system provides security 
<br>The system has integrity
<br>The system is dependable 
<br>The system is reliable
<br>I can trust the system
<br>I am familiar with the system





